---
title:  "Intro"
---

Welcome to _A Complete Intro to React_. The goal of this workshop is to get you full up to speed on modern development and give you an idea what it is like to develop an app in the React ecosystem.

When talking about React, you cannot simply _just_ use React. It is an incomplete picture; it is a cog in the machine. React does well to introduce some useful primitives into your toolbox and allows you to build your app without introducing too many opinions. As such, we need to learn some other tools to round the whole story of our app. However, keep in mind that these are modules we are choosing to plug together; you are free to go home and swap in your own parts to suit your own needs. While React fits many/most needs, this complete stack won't; it has opinions and you need to make sure each piece contributes to your story and try not to shoehorn any piece in that you don't need.

In addition to React, we are going to be using Node.js, Express, Redux, Webpack, Jest, Enzyme, Yarn, Prettier, ESLint, and React-Router. Don't worry if you're aren't familiar with any of these: that's the point of this workshop. Since this workshop is about React, we will not be deep diving into Node.js or database schema. We will discuss these satellite concepts just as they pertain to React.

Questions? Feel free to <a href="https://twitter.com/holtbt">tweet at me.</a> Corrections or concerns about this page? Please file an issue or make a pull request on <a href="https://github.com/btholt/complete-intro-to-react">the repo</a>.
